# HTML Lists, Control Flow with JS, and the CSS Box Model

**Unorder Lists**

When should you use an unordered list- 

- when the order of the items in the lsit doesn't matter.

How do you change the bullet style of unordered list items?

- you can change with CSS using the <u>list-style-type</u> property.

**Ordered Lists**

When the meaning of the order is important

*reversed*

This Boolean attribute specifies that the list's items are in reverse order. Items will be numbered from high to low.

*start*

An integer to start counting from for the list items. Always an Arabic numeral (1, 2, 3, etc.), even when the numbering type is letters or Roman numerals. For example, to start numbering elements from the letter "d" or the Roman numeral "iv," use start="4".

*type*

Sets the numbering type:

a for lowercase letters
A for uppercase letters
i for lowercase Roman numerals
I for uppercase Roman numerals
1 for numbers (default)

- The specified type is used for the entire list unless a different type attribute is used on an enclosed <li> element.

**Box Model**

Describe the CSS properties of margin and padding as characters in a story. What is their role in a story titled: “The Box Model”? Theres a big storm coming to a small town called Cliffside Shores. Padding is making sure that his house is solid and stable to keep the contents of his house safe. Margin works for the small town in their public works department. He is assigned to make sure that the roads surrounding Padding are maintain clear seperation between Padding contents and the contents 
 
 Box Model. 

- contents
- padding 
- boarders
- margins

*Array*  

are basically single objects that contain multiple values stored in a list using varables.

Is the people array a valid JavaScript array? If so, how can I access the values stored? If not, why? 

 const people = [['pete', 32, 'librarian', null], ['Smith', 40, 'accountant', 'fishing:hiking:rock_climbing'], ['bill', null, 'artist', null]];
List five shorthand operators for assignment in javascript and describe what they do.
Read the code below and evaluate the last expression and explain what the result would be and why.

 let a = 10;
 let b = 'dog';
 let c = false;

 // evaluate this
 (a + c) + b;
Describe a real world example of when a conditional statement should be used in a JavaScript program.
Give an example of when a Loop is useful in JavaScript.

## Things I want to know more about

loops and what different operators do