# HTML Links, JS Functions, and Intro to CSS Layout

## Hyperlinks

- Hyperlinks allow us to link documents to other documents or resources, link to specific parts of documents, or make apps available at a web address. 

Hyperlinks are wrapped in <a element with an href attribute.
  
  - href- Hypertext Reference or target.
    - hold the web address for the hyperlink.
  
  title elements has more info about the link.

- shows up as a tool tip when you hover over the hyperlink

- If a title's information is truly important to the usability of the page, then you should present it in a manner that will be accessible to all users, for example by putting it in the regular text.

## CSS Layout

*Normal flow* - how the element in the page are laid out by default. 
  -default is the Box model for HTML elements

*Block-level element* - content fill the entire inline space avaible. 

*Inline element* - just the size of the contents of the element.

If two vertically adjacent elements both have a margin set on them and their margins touch, the larger of the two margins remains and the smaller one disappears. *Collapsing margins* is only relevant in the vertical direction.

**Fixed Positioning**-
Elements with fixed positioning are positioned relative to the viewport (the browser window).

- creating headers, footers, or navigation bars that remain visible at all times as the user scrolls through the page.

- taken out of the normal document flow, meaning they don't affect the layout of other elements on the page.

**Absolute Positioning**:
Elements with absolute positioning are positioned relative to the nearest ancestor with a non-static positioning (such as relative, absolute, or fixed). If no such ancestor exists, the element will be positioned relative to the initial containing block (usually the viewport).

- often used for creating tooltips, overlay menus, or positioning elements within a specific container.

- they are taken out of the normal document flow, so they don't affect the layout of other elements.

## Functions

allow you to store a piece of code that does a single task inside a defined block, and then call that code whenever you need it using a single short command.

*custom functions* - functions defined in your code, not inside the browser.

You can declare a function but for it to actually run you have to invoke or call the function.

An *argument* is the input for the function, the *parameter* is the label that is given to the argument.

Pair programming touches on the four fundamental skills that help anyone learn a new language.

- provides better focus than when working alone.

## Things I want to know more about