
**Domain Modeling** - Process of creating a conceptual model in code for a specific problem.

- Describes the various entities, their attributes and behaviors, as well as the constraints that govern the problem domain

- So that technical and business teams have a common language and vocabulary for effective communication.


Why should tables not be used for page layouts? they reduce accessibility for visually impaired users. The complex markup produces confusing output for screen readers.
The code is harder to write and maintain. The sizing of tables means more effort has to be made for the layout to work on different types of devices.

List and describe 3 different semantic HTML elements used in an HTML <table.

1. *td* element creates a table cell, the smallest container of data in a table.

2. *tr* table row element. this is where the number <td (data cells) you want in a row will live.

3. *th* table header element. cells that are at the beginning of a row or columnn.

*constructor* - function called using the **new** keyword.

- easier than having multiple objects used repeatedly.

calling(invoking) a *constructor*

- Creates a new object
- Binds **this** to the new object, so you can refer to **this** in your constructor code
- Runs the code in the constructor
- Returns the new object.

the term **this** when used in an *object literal* - **this** within an object literal, it refers to the object in which it is defined.

when used in a *constructor*-"this" is used to set properties on the newly created object? 

Explain prototypes and inheritance via an analogy from your previous work experience.
The prototype and inheritance are like my old managers, if I don't have the info, or the authority to do something, the only place to get the answer from the person with a bigger presence and more power.

NOTE: This is a very common front end developer interview question

## Things I want to know more about
Prototypes 
Constructors