# JavaScipt Object Basics

*Object* is a collection of related data and/or functionality.

- consists of several variables and functions.
  - which are called **properties**(variables in objects) and **methods**(functions in objects) when they are inside objects.

Create an Object

 The most common way to create an object is with curly braces {} and you add properties and methods to an object using dot notation.
 
1. Begins with defining and initializing a variable.

- const person = {};

2. An object is made up of multiple members, each of which has a name and a value.

- Each name/value pair must be separated by a comma, and the name and value in each case are separated by a colon.
  - const objectName = {
  member1Name: member1Value,
  member2Name: member2Value,
  member3Name: member3Value,
};


**Properties** 
- properties have simplier syntax than functions.
  - bio: function () we can write bio()

An object property can itself be an object.

*Dot Notation*: the object followed by a period and the item you want to access.
-preferred over bracket notation.


name.first;

name.last;

*Bracket Notation*: use brackets just like with an array.

- instead of using an index number to select an item, you are using the name associated with each member's value.

- if an object property name is held in a variable, then you can't use dot notation to access the value, but you can access the value using bracket notation.
person["age"];

person["name"]["first"];

Setting members doesn't just stop at updating the values of existing properties and methods; you can also create completely new members.

**this** - keyword refers to the current object the code is being written inside

- **this** enables you to use the same method definition for every object you create.

const dog = {
  name: 'Spot',
  age: 2,
  color: 'white with black spots',
  humanAge: function (){
    console.log(`${this.name} is ${this.age*7} in human years`);
  }
}

A *constructor* is just a function called using the **new** keyword.

# Introduction to the DOM

The Document Object Model (DOM) - the data representation of the objects that comprise the structure and content of a document on the web.

- Represents the page so that programs can change the document structure, style, and content.

JS used the DOM to access the document and the elements.

DOM is not a scripting language or part of JavaScript.

- its independent of any scripting language.
- implementations of the DOM can be built for any language.

## Things I want to know more about

objects within objects