
# Scope

**Scope** -  how variables and names are looked up in your code

- The scope of a name or variable depends on the place in your code where you create that variable.
- where you assign or define a name in your code determines the scope or visibility of that name.

LEGB rule - Local, Enclosing, Global, and Built-in scopes.

-Summerizes the scope levels and the sequence of steps Python follows.

*Global scope*: The names that you define in this scope are available to all your code.

- To inspect the names within your main global scope, you can use dir()
- When you want to modify a global variable from within a function, you need to use the *global keyword*.

```python
y = 20  # Global variable

def another_function():
    print(y)

another_function()
# y can be accessed here as well.

```

*Local scope*: The names that you define in this scope are only available or visible to the code within the scope.

```python
def example_function():
    x = 10  # Local variable
    print(x)

example_function()
# Accessing x here would raise an error since it's local to the function.

```

*nonlocal names* can be accessed from inner functions, but not assigned or updated. 

## Big O

**Big O notation** is like a language that helps us talk about how fast or how much memory an algorithm needs to solve a problem.

- Imagine you have a task to do, and as the task gets bigger (more data, more things to process), Big O helps us understand how much longer it will take as the task grows.
- When we have different ways (algorithms) to solve a problem, Big O lets us compare them easily. We can say, "This one is faster for large tasks," or "That one uses less memory."

## Dice Role

```python
import random
# simulate dice roll
def roll_dice():
    return random.randint(1, 6)

result = roll_dice()
print(f"The dice rolled: {result}")

# probability over multiple trials
num_trials = 10000
desired_number = 6
count = 0

for _ in range(num_trials):
    if roll_dice() == desired_number:
        count += 1

probability = count / num_trials
print(f"Probability of rolling a {desired_number}: {probability}")

```

### Sources:

Chat GPT

[Python Scope](https://realpython.com/python-scope-legb-rule/)

[Dice Rolls](https://web.archive.org/web/20220608035657/https://artofproblemsolving.com/wiki/index.php/Basic_Programming_With_Python#Random)