# List Comprehensions and Decorators

**List Comprehensions** - concise method for handling lists.

- more compact than using a traditional for loop and often make the code more readable.

```python
new_list = [expression for item in iterable if condition]

```

*expression*: The operation to perform on each item.

*item*: The variable representing each element in the iterable.

*iterable*: The iterable (e.g., a list, tuple, string) you're iterating over.

*condition (optional)*: A filter that allows you to include only certain items.

Ex:

```python
# Using a for loop 
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
squared_for_loop = []
for num in numbers:
    squared_for_loop.append(num ** 2)

# Using list comprehension 
squared_list_comprehension = [num ** 2 for num in numbers]

print("Using For Loop:", squared_for_loop)
print("Using List Comprehension:", squared_list_comprehension)

Using For Loop: [1, 4, 9, 16, 25]
Using List Comprehension: [1, 4, 9, 16, 25]

```

**Decorators** - powerful and flexible way to modify or extend the behavior of functions or methods. 

- simple syntax for calling *higher-order functions*.
- allow you to wrap another function and perform actions before and/or after the execution of the wrapped function.
  - takes another function and extends the behavior of the latter function without explicitly modifying it.
- applied using the @decorator_name syntax(pie syntax) before a function definition
- essentially transform the decorated function and return a new function with modified behavior.

<u>Common Use Cases:</u>

1. Logging and debugging.
2. Timing and performance measurement.
3. Access control and authentication.
4. Memoization (caching results).

```python
def my_decorator(func):
    def wrapper():
        print("Something is happening before the function is called.")
        func()
        print("Something is happening after the function is called.")
    return wrapper

@my_decorator
def say_whee():
    print("Whee!")

```
So, @my_decorator is just an easier way of saying say_whee = my_decorator(say_whee). It’s how you apply a decorator to a function.