# Django Custom User

*as a general rule, always use a custom user model for all new Django projects.*

**Flexibility:** A Custom User Model allows you to define your own user model with the fields that are relevant to your application. This flexibility is crucial when your user requirements differ from the default User model provided by Django.

**Scalability:** As your project grows, having a custom user model makes it easier to adapt to changing authentication and user profile requirements without the need for complex migrations or workarounds.

**Consistency:** Custom User Models provide a consistent way to handle user-related functionalities across your project. This includes fields like email, username, and additional user-specific attributes.

**Security:** You can enhance security by incorporating additional fields or validation logic into your custom user model. For example, enforcing unique email addresses or requiring certain fields during registration.

*Django User model* includes fields like username, email, password, etc. 

- If the application requires additional fields or a different authentication method, a custom user model becomes necessary.

Implementation:

1. Create a Custom User Model:

```python
# models.py
from django.contrib.auth.models import AbstractUser

class CustomUser(AbstractUser):
    # Add custom fields here
    age = models.IntegerField(null=True, blank=True)
```

2. Update AUTH_USER_MODEL in settings.py:

```python
# settings.py
AUTH_USER_MODEL = 'yourapp.CustomUser'
```

3. Create and Apply Migrations:

```python
python manage.py makemigrations
python manage.py migrate
```

## Django X

A set of tools and best practices bundled together to extend the functionality of Django. It includes features like enhanced project structure, additional templates, and tools to streamline development.

- can be used to quickly set up a project structure with a robust foundation.

Features:

**Enhanced Project Structure:** DjangoX provides a project structure that encourages separation of concerns, making your codebase more maintainable.

**Pre-configured Settings:** DjangoX comes with pre-configured settings to optimize development, testing, and production environments.

**Commonly Used Packages:** DjangoX includes commonly used third-party packages that can accelerate development, such as django-crispy-forms for better form styling.


### Sources

Chat GPT

[Django Custom User Model](https://learndjango.com/tutorials/django-custom-user-model)

[Django X](https://github.com/wsvincent/djangox)