# More React

*Dynamic Routes:*

In Next.js, dynamic routes allow you to create pages with variable paths. This means you can have pages that match a specific pattern and extract values from the URL to render content dynamically. Dynamic routes are defined using square brackets [] to indicate variable segments in the URL.

```python
// pages/[id].js
import { useRouter } from 'next/router';

const DynamicPage = () => {
  const router = useRouter();
  const { id } = router.query;

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Dynamic Page</h1>
      <p>ID: {id}</p>
    </div>
  );
};

export default DynamicPage;
```

*Static Routes:*

Static routes, on the other hand, are traditional routes where the content is pre-rendered at build time. These pages have fixed paths and do not depend on external data during runtime.

```python
// pages/about.js
const AboutPage = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>About Page</h1>
      <p>This is a static page.</p>
    </div>
  );
};

export default AboutPage;
```

## Deploying a Next.js Application

1. Build the Application:

npm run build

1. Choose a Deployment Platform:

There are several platforms to deploy Next.js applications, including:

**Vercel:** Provides seamless integration with Next.js and offers automatic deployments.

**Netlify:** Supports continuous deployment and provides easy integration.

**AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud**: Deploy on cloud platforms using services like AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Azure App Service, or Google App Engine.

**Docker:** Containerize the application and deploy it using container orchestration tools like Kubernetes.

1. Configure Environment Variables:

Ensure that any necessary environment variables are set for the production environment.

1. Deploy:

Deploy the built application to the chosen platform using the appropriate deployment command or interface.

Next.js has a special folder called public for serving static assets. Files placed in the public directory are served as-is and can be referenced directly in your components.

Next.js automatically handles the routing and serving of these static files. It ensures efficient caching and optimized performance for static assets in your application.
