# Big O Notation

In the context of the reading “Pain and Suffering,” describe the main challenges faced by beginners when learning Python and suggest at least two strategies for overcoming these obstacles.

- remembering to think like a programmer
  take more time figuring out what is being asked.
  small problems are easier to research and ask questions about than large ones. Easier to debug too

- remembering my why and that pain is only temporary.
- the answer doesn't always come from starng at screen longer and longer. It can come from switching your brain, so get up and do something else.
- It's supposed to hard, every time it feels hard, learning is happening
After reading “Beginners Guide to Big O,” explain the concept of time complexity and space complexity.

How the time taken by a program or algorithm grows as the input size increases.

- Time complexity helps us estimate the efficiency of a solution by considering how its execution time scales with the size of the problem it's solving
  - Ex. "How does the time it takes to make these cookies change as I double the amount of ingredients?"

Space complexity like the space you need to store your cookie ingredients and the baking tools.

- Understanding how much memory or storage an algorithm needs as the input size grows.
  - Space complexity helps us estimate how efficiently a program uses memory

Based on the “Names and Values in Python” reading, explain the difference between mutable and immutable data types in Python.

**Mutable**- it can be changed after creation.

If you change the content of a mutable object, it will still refer to the same object in memory. This means that any variable pointing to the object will see the modifications.

- Lists, dictionaries, and sets

**Immutable** - it can't be changed

- Integers, floats, strings, and tuples

If you want to make changes to an immutable object, you actually create a new object. Any variable pointing to the original object remains unaffected by these changes.

## Sources

[Pain v Suffering](https://codefellows.github.io/code-401-python-guide/curriculum/class-01/notes/pain_suffering)

[Big O Notation](https://robbell.io/2009/06/a-beginners-guide-to-big-o-notation)

[Python Values and Names](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_AEJHKGk9ns)
