# Random Module, Tests, and Risk

**Random module** - provides functions that help in making random selections and generating random values

*randint(a,b) function* Returns a random integer in the range [a, b], including both endpoints.

- runs into error if we pass the first input argument greater than the second input argument 

*random() function* Returns a random float in the range [0.0, 1.0]

- If you want a larger number, you can multiply the values generated

*choice() function* Selects a random element from a collection object like a list, set, tuple, etc.

- takes a collection object as its input argument

*choices() function* Selects two or more elements randomly with replacement from a list.

- takes the list of values as its first input argument and the values to be selected as the input for its parameter k.
- f you pass the value k=0, it will return an empty list. 

*randrange(start, stop, step) function* select a random element from a given range.

- Works as a combination of the choice() function and the range() function. 

*shuffle() function* shuffles the elements in the list in place.

- Takes a list as an argument.

**Risk analysis**: The process of identifying the risks in applications or software that you built and prioritizing them to test

*Identification*: Identify potential risks that could affect the project.

*Assessment*: Evaluate the likelihood and impact of each identified risk.

*Prioritization*: Prioritize risks based on their severity and potential impact.

*Mitigation Planning*: Develop strategies to mitigate or manage the identified risks.

*Monitoring and Review*: Continuously monitor and review risks throughout the project lifecycle.

**Test coverage** a metric that measures the extent to which the source code of a program is tested by a particular test suite. 

- Helps assess the quality of testing and identifies areas that may need additional testing.
- *misleading* if it focuses solely on the quantity of code covered, without considering the quality of the tests

**Big O** - describe the performance of an algorithm in terms of its efficiency and scalability.

Ex. finding a specific book in an unsorted stack of books.

- Big O for space would be O(1) becasue the amount of space the stack of books takes up doesn't change if you have to find more books.
- Big O for time would be O(n) because the more books you want to find the longer it would take to search.

## Sources

[Risk Analysis](https://www.edureka.co/blog/risk-analysis-in-software-testing/)

[Random Module](https://www.pythonforbeginners.com/random/how-to-use-the-random-module-in-python#htoc-the-randint-function-in-python)

[Testing](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/TestCoverage.html)

Chat GPT