# Testing and Modules

**Test-Driven Development (TDD)** in Python:

Write Tests First: Before writing any production code, write tests that define the expected behavior of the code.

Write the Minimum Code: Write the minimum code necessary to pass the tests. Avoid over-engineering.

Run Tests: Run the tests to ensure they fail initially (since the code doesn't exist yet) and then write the code to make them pass.

Refactor Code: After the tests pass, refactor the code if needed. Refactoring ensures that the code remains clean and maintainable.

Repeat: Repeat the cycle for new features or changes, ensuring that tests are always passing.

These features provide a robust maintainable code that reduces the likelihood of bugs

If the python interpreter is running that module (the source file) as the main program, it sets the special name variable to have the value of main:

```python

 __name__ == '__main__'

```

Use cases for including this conditional in your code:

- It ensures that certain code (typically the script's main functionality) is only executed when the script is run directly and not when it's imported as a module.
- Allows a Python script to be both a standalone program and a module that can be used by other scripts.
- When writing unit tests, this condition can be used to exclude certain blocks of code that should not run during testing.

*recursion*- programming concept where a function calls itself in its own definition. In Python, a recursive function consists of a base case and a recursive case.

```python

def factorial(n):
    if n == 0 or n == 1:
        return 1
    else:
        return n * factorial(n-1)


```

*Module* - a single Python file that contains Python code, including functions, classes, and variables
*Package* - way of organizing related modules into a directory hierarchy.