# Pandas

**Pandas library** - Python library for data manipulation and analysis. The primary purpose is to provide data structures and functions needed to manipulate and analyze structured data efficiently.

*Series:*

- A one-dimensional array-like object.
- Can hold any data type.
- Has associated labels, or index, to allow for easy access to elements.

*DataFrame:*

- A two-dimensional table with rows and columns.
- Similar to a spreadsheet or SQL table.
- Columns can be of different types.
- Can be thought of as a collection of Series.

## Common Operations in Pandas

*Data Cleaning:*

- Handling missing data.
- Removing or filling duplicates.

*Data Selection and Indexing:*

- Selecting specific rows or columns.
- Conditional indexing using boolean expressions.

*Data Manipulation:*

- Applying functions to data.
- Combining and merging datasets.

*Data Aggregation and Grouping:*

Computing summary statistics.
Grouping data based on certain criteria.

*Time Series Analysis:*

Handling time-based data.
Resampling and time-shifting.

Loading a dataset: pd.read_csv(), pd.read_excel(), pd.read_json()

 ```python
 import pandas as pd

# Read CSV file into DataFrame
df = pd.read_csv('example.csv')

# Display the DataFrame
print(df)
```

## File Formats and Corresponding Pandas Functions:

CSV (Comma-Separated Values):

- pd.read_csv()

Excel:

- pd.read_excel()

JSON:

- pd.read_json()

SQL Database:

- pd.read_sql()

### Sources

ChatGPT

[Panadas](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/user_guide/10min.html)

[More Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/getting_started/intro_tutorials/index.html)
