# Authentication

**OAuth**- (Open Authorization)

- Open standard authentication framework that enables third-party applications to access resources on behalf of a user without exposing the user's credentials
  - Example: when a user logs onto a website and it offers one or more opportunities to log on using another website’s/service’s logon. You then click on the button linked to the other website, the other website authenticates you, and the website you were originally connecting to logs you on itself afterward using permission gained from the second website.

 Authorization Code Flow

  1. User initiates authorization
  2. Request for authorization
  3. User is redirected to the service provider
  4. Authorization code exchange
  5. Access token usage

“OpenID is for humans logging into machines, OAuth is for machines logging into machines on behalf of humans.”

OpenID Connect was released, which reinvented OpenID as an authentication layer for OAuth.

*authentication*- process of granting or denying access to specific resources or action?

*authorization*- the process of granting or denying access to specific resources or actions

Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) - an extension of the Authorization Code Flow designed to enhance security for public clients.

Implicit Flow with Form Post - returns access tokens directly to the client without the use of an authorization code. The "Form Post" variant involves returning the token in a form post response to avoid exposing it in the URL.

Client Credentials Flow - used when the client (usually a confidential client, such as a server-side application) is the resource owner and can authenticate itself.

Device Authorization Flow - designed for devices that have limited input capabilities (e.g., smart TVs, printers). The user authorizes the device on a separate device (e.g., a smartphone or computer) by entering a code provided by the device.


Resource Owner Password Flow - that can securely handle the user's credentials (e.g., a highly trusted first-party client). The user's username and password are directly exchanged for an access token.

Sources:

ChatGPT [OAuth](https://www.csoonline.com/article/562635/what-is-oauth-how-the-open-authorization-framework-works.html)

[Authentication Flows](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow)
