# REST

The biggest impact on psychological safety in my previous workplace had been the managers. When I've had good managers. The places I've felt respected for being authentic, were places where managers gave me that confidence. A team I lead years ago used to listen to this call in radio catch a cheater shows for an hour in the middle of the shift. It was a great way to get a break up the shift. 

Communication and empathy — the building blocks of forging real connections.

*Roy Fielding* wrote the first web servers and researched why and how the web works. He also helped write HTTP.

Why don’t the techniques that we use in this class work well when we need to be able to talk to all of the machines in the world? They weren't designed to communicate with different machines around the world.


**HTTP** protocol that Fielding and his friends created gives the location of information from anywhere.

- HTTP is actually a general purpose protocol for applying verbs to nouns.

When a machine *GETs* a resource, it will ask for the machine-readable one. When a browser GETs a resource for a human, it will ask for the human-readable "representation" of that data.

*POST* is for When one system needs to add something to another system

*PUT* is for when the systems want to replace something in the system. 

*PATCH* is for when the system wants to do a partial update.

*SOAP* layers of complex specifications for how to access data in a different way that isn't nearly as useful or eloquent.