# MongoDB and Mongoose

| SQL   | NoSQL|
| -------- | ------- |
| Uses a structured and predefined schema.  | supports flexible, dynamic, and unstructured data.   |
| Vertical scalability by increasing server resources |Horizontal scalability by adding more servers/nodes.      |
| Uses SQL(Structured Query Language)|  No SQL databases use various query languages or API's | Uses a structured and predefined schema.    | |  
Requires a predefined schema for data tables. | Schema can be dynamic, allowing changes without downtime.  | |  
Best suited for complex queries and transaction | Suitable for large amounts of rapidly changing data with high read and write loads.

What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?
Give a real world example.
What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?
Give a real world example.
Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?
Which type of database is best for scalability?

**SQL Database:**

*Good Fit*

- Suitable for structured and relational data. They excel in scenarios where data adheres to a well-defined schema and relationships between different entities are clearly defined.

*Real World Example*
  
- An e-commerce application with tables for customers, orders, products, and their relationships. Each table has predefined columns (attributes) and follows a strict schema.

**NoSQL Database:**

*Good Fit*

- Well-suited for unstructured or semi-structured data and scenarios where flexibility and scalability are crucial.

*Real World Example*

- A social media platform where user-generated content such as posts, comments, and likes are stored.

- Best for scalability and hierarachical data.

*Relational Database* 

- A relational database is a type of database that organizes data into tables with rows and columns.
- It establishes relationships between these tables using keys, enabling the representation of complex data structures.
- Work with tabular structure, where data is organized into tables.

*schema*- refers to the structure or blueprint that defines the organization of data in the database.

*NoSQL database*- Not Only SQL.

It is a type of database that provides a mechanism for storage and retrieval of data that is not modeled in tabular relations, as in a relational database.

There's no standardized querying language.

Some NoSQL databases have a smaller community and fewer tools compared to well-established SQL databases.

MongoDB database

Inside MongoDB, data is stored in flexible, JSON-like documents.

More flexible that SQL

Souces: Chat GPT 

[nosql vs sql](https://www.thegeekstuff.com/2014/01/sql-vs-nosql-db/?utm_source=tuicool)