# Functional Programming

**Functional Programming** 

- Treats computation as the evaluation of mathematical functions and avoids changing state and mutable data.
- functions are first-class citizens, meaning they can be passed around as arguments to other functions, returned as values from other functions, and assigned to variables.

**Pure Function** 

- It returns the same result if given the same arguments (it is also referred as **deterministic**)
- It does not cause any observable side effects.

**Benefits**

- Predictability: Since pure functions have no side effects, their behavior is predictable and easy to understand.
- Testability: Pure functions are easier to test because they don't rely on external state or produce side effects.
- Concurrency: Pure functions are inherently thread-safe, making it easier to reason about and parallelize code.


*immutability* - once an object is created, it cannot be changed.

- immutable programming promotes the creation of new data structures with the desired changes. 

**Referential Transparency** function call can be replaced with its resulting value without affecting the program's behavior.

- Pure functions are referentially transparent by definition.

**module** - self-contained unit of code that encapsulates related functionality.

- Allow you to break down a program into smaller, manageable pieces, each focusing on a specific aspect of the overall functionality.

*require* - used to include or import external modules into your code. 

1. Create module

``` javascript
// module.js
const greet = () => {
  console.log("Hello, world!");
};

module.exports = { greet };

```

2. Require the module

```javascript
// main.js
const myModule = require('./module'); // Assuming module.js is in the same directory

myModule.greet(); // Call the function from the imported module

```

3. Make module available

- Ensure that the module file is present in the correct location relative to the script that is requiring it.



