# In Memory Storage

The call stack is primarily used for function invocation (call). Since the call stack is single, function(s) execution, is done, one at a time, from top to bottom. It means the call stack is synchronous.

*‘call’* - function invocation

A **call stack** is a data structure that uses the *Last In, First Out (LIFO)* principle to temporarily store and manage function invocation (call).

main() calls functionA().
functionA() calls functionB().
functionB() calls functionC() and functionD().
functionC() and functionD() complete, and control returns to functionB().
functionB() completes, and control returns to functionA().
functionA() completes, and control returns to main().
Finally, main() calls functionE().

```plaintext
main()
|-- functionA()
|   |-- functionB()
|       |-- functionC()
|       +-- functionD()
+-- functionE()
```

A *stack overflow* occurs when the call stack reaches its maximum capacity, typically due to infinite or very deep recursion. 

- recursive function (a function that calls itself) without an exit point.

**Temporarily store:** When a function is invoked (called), the function, its parameters, and variables are pushed into the call stack to form a stack frame. This stack frame is a memory location in the stack.

## Error Codes

**Reference Error:** A reference error occurs when you try to use a variable that has not been declared.

**Syntax Error:** It could be a misspelled keyword, a missing parenthesis, or any other violation of the language's syntax.

**Range Error:** A range error occurs when a value is not within the expected range. For example, trying to manipulate an object with an invalid length or using a numeric value that is outside the allowable range.

**Type Error:** A type error occurs when a value is not of the expected type. This can happen when trying to perform an operation on a variable that is not suitable for that operation, such as attempting to call a method on a non-function object.

**Breakpoint:** A breakpoint is a point in your code where the execution will pause so that you can inspect the state of the program. This is a crucial tool in debugging, as it allows developers to step through the code one line at a time and observe variable values, helping identify and fix issues.

**Debugger:** A debugger is a tool or software that helps developers find and fix bugs (errors) in their code. It allows you to set breakpoints, step through code, inspect variables, and analyze the program's state at different points in its execution. 

- You can also add conditional breakpoints by right-clicking a previous set breakpoint, which will make your program stop at that point only if a condition is met,