# React and Forms

**Controlled Component** - A form element whose value is controlled by the state in the React component.

- The source for the component's value is React state, and the component renders what the state says.

- Ensures that the React component always displays the current state, and any user input or changes trigger an update to the state.

*Updating State as the User Enters Data:*

Pros: Provides real-time feedback to the user. You can perform validation or show dynamic previews as the user 
types.

Cons: If there's a need for expensive operations or side effects on every keystroke, it might affect performance.

*Storing Responses on Form Submission:*

Pros: You can validate the entire form before updating the state, avoiding unnecessary updates. It might be more efficient if there are complex validations.

Cons: Users might not get instant feedback, and you might need additional logic to manage form state changes.

How do we target what the user is entering if we have an event handler on an input field?

- Through the event object.

**Ternary Operator(conditional operator)** - Shorten your 'if' statements into one line of code with the conditional operator

- The condition is what you’re actually testing. The result of your condition should be true or false or at least coerce to either boolean value.

- A ? separates our conditional from our true value. Anything between the ? and the : is what is executed if the condition evaluates to true.

- Finally a : colon. If your condition evaluates to false, any code after the colon is executed.


Traditional if statement syntax:

```javascript

if ( condition ) {
  value if true;
} else {
  value if false;
}

```

ternary operator syntax:

```javascript

condition ? value if true : value if false

```

```javascript

if(x===y){
  console.log(true);
} else {
  console.log(false);
}

x===y ? true : false 

```

